Tutorial on how to pass messages from one contract to another using interop (#1334)
ethereum-optimism/docs: pages/stack/interop/tutorials/message-passing.mdx

---
title: Interop message passing tutorial
lang: en-US
description: Learn how to pass messages from one chain in the Superchain to another.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'
import { InteropCallout } from '@/components/WipCallout'

<InteropCallout />

# Interop message passing tutorial

<Callout>
  This is a step-by-step tutorial.
  You can find an explanation of how this works [here](../message-passing).

  If you just want a working code example, [see here](#use-the-eth-optimismviem-library-to-relay-the-message).
</Callout>

In this tutorial you learn how to use the [`L2ToL2CrossDomainMessenger`](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/develop/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L2/L2ToL2CrossDomainMessenger.sol) contract to pass a message from one interop blockchain to another.

## Prerequisites

Before starting this tutorial, ensure you have:

*  Basic knowledge of Solidity and TypeScript
*  Experience with smart contract development
*  Familiarity with blockchain concepts
*  A Unix-like environment (Linux, macOS, or WSL for Windows)

## Install tools

<Steps>

### Foundry

> Download and install [Foundry].
> Part of Foundry is [`anvil`](https://book.getfoundry.sh/anvil/), which runs a local Ethereum node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install Foundry by following the [official installation guide](https://book.getfoundry.sh/getting-started/installation).
```

### Supersim

> Download and install [Supersim](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/supersim/releases).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Download the latest [Supersim release](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/supersim/releases).
```

---
title: Interop message passing tutorial
lang: en-US

> description: Learn how to pass messages from one chain in the Superchain to another.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to pass messages between chains in the Superchain using the L2ToL2CrossDomainMessenger contract.
```

Part of Foundry is [`anvil`](https://book.getfoundry.sh/anvil/), which runs a local Ethereum node.

### Supersim

Download and install [Supersim](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/supersim/releases).

</Steps>

## Solidity message passing

In this section you create contracts and transfer a message between them.
For now, we ignore the need for executing messages by turning on autorelay.
Look [below](#javascript-message-relaying) for an explanation how to relay your own messages.

<Steps>

### Run the chains

1. In the directory where Supersim is installed, start it with autorelay.

    ```sh
    ./supersim --interop.autorelay
    ```

    Supersim creates three `anvil` blockchains:

    | Role | ChainID | RPC URL |
    | - | -: | - |
    | L1 | 900 | http://127.0.0.1:8545 
    | OPChainA | 901 | http://127.0.0.1:9545 
    | OPChainB | 902 | http://127.0.0.1:9546  

1. In a separate shell, store the configuration in environment variables.

    ```sh
    USER_ADDR=0xf39Fd6e51aad88F6F4ce6aB8827279cffFb92266
    PRIV_KEY=0xac0974bec39a17e36ba4a6b4d238ff944bacb478cbed5efcae784d7bf4f2ff80
    RPC_L1=http://localhost:8545
    RPC_A=http://localhost:9545
    RPC_B=http://localhost:9546

>     ```

Author: It's safe in this context, an account that is only used for testing.

>     ```

Author: Private key of a testing account, this is safe.

<details>

<summary>Sanity check</summary>

To verify that the chains are running, check the balance of `$ADDR`.

    ```sh
    cast balance --ether $USER_ADDR --rpc-url $RPC_L1
    cast balance --ether $USER_ADDR --rpc-url $RPC_A
    cast balance --ether $USER_ADDR --rpc-url $RPC_B        
    ```

> </details>

Author: Fixed

## Prerequisites

Before starting this tutorial, ensure you have:

*  Basic knowledge of Solidity and TypeScript
*  Experience with smart contract development
*  Familiarity with blockchain concepts
*  A Unix-like environment (Linux, macOS, or WSL for Windows)

## Installing required tools

<Steps>

### Foundry

Install Foundry by following the [official installation guide](https://book.getfoundry.sh/getting-started/installation).

### Supersim

Download the latest [Supersim release](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/supersim/releases).

</Steps>

## Implementing solidity message passing

In this section you create contracts and transfer a message between them.
For now, we ignore the need for executing messages by turning on autorelay.
Look [below](#javascript-message-relaying) for an explanation how to relay your own messages.

<Steps>

### Run the chains

1. In the directory where Supersim is installed, start it with autorelay.

    ```sh
    ./supersim --interop.autorelay

>     ```

Author: Over there we are running `supersim` *without* automatic relaying. Here we don't want to do that yet to allow people to see the functionality without having to handle all the details already. That is the reason we need `--interop.autorelay`.

    Supersim creates three `anvil` blockchains:

    | Role | ChainID | RPC URL |
    | - | -: | - |
    | L1 | 900 | http://127.0.0.1:8545 
    | OPChainA | 901 | http://127.0.0.1:9545 
    | OPChainB | 902 | http://127.0.0.1:9546  

> 1. In a separate shell, store the configuration in environment variables.

Author: No, in markdown it's fine to do only `1.`, markdown takes care of it. I prefer not to do the numbering myself, because if I need to add or remove steps it would have to be redone or confuse future editors.
